notes aside from ising models:
  Nitrogen freezes, goes from liquid to solid, at 63 Kelvin (-209.86 Celsius, -346 Fahrenheit))
  Helium            goes from gas to liquid,   at 5.2 Kelvin (-268 Celsius, -450 Fahrenheit)
     (core of Jupiter is thought to have liquid helium rain)
  Helium freezes,   goes from liquid to solid,  at essentially 0K and very high pressure.
     (25 Pa, 1 K, −272 °C, or −458 °F)
     (not sure what cosmological model predicts a 0K temperature... nowhere is at 0K currently as
     pressure from kinetic energy in an imperfect vacuum always results in a higher temperature
     than that... CMB is 3K)
     (centers of black holes have very different total energy states, but have exhausted
      their supply of hydrogen and helium...)

temperatures for use of ising models???  low-temperature superconductors?

   literature suggests micro-environments w/ very low temperatures:

   ^3He/^4He (superfluids) dilution refrigeration w/ pre-cooling by a 
     Gifford-McMahon 2-stage refrigerators achieving temperatures in milli-Kelvin????
     (Gifford-McMahon T=80K for 100 W of cooling power at 3% efficiency is cited elsewhere).
     https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3He%2F4He-dilution-refrigerator-with-Gifford-McMahon-Uhlig-Hehn/37fdb7e28ad2ca96c6766265afeb79fe3d466049

   SC (super conducting) magnets in the LHC particle accelerator? niobium-titanium (Nb-Ti) magnets operate at 1.9 K
     Type II superconductors such as niobium-tin and niobium-titanium are in superconducting magnets. 
     Nb-Ti critical temperature is 10 Kelvin.
     contrast to historical NAL 15-foot bubble chamber operated at liquid hydrogen temperature 
       of 20 Kelvin (-423 F).

     Nb-Ti and Nb3Sn superconductors typically require cooling to 4.2 K by liquid He and 
       sometimes to below 2 K by superfluid liquid He (as in Large Hadron Collider and
       Nb-based Superconducting Radio Frequency Cavity applications) 
       (? https://www.researchgate.net/publication/237733978_Niobium_in_superconducting_RF_cavities). 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

From Classical to Quantum Glass
by Wu, Ellman, Rosenbaum, Aeppli, and Reich
  published in Physical Review Letters, 7 Oct 1991, Vol 67, NUMBER 15
  https://authors.library.caltech.edu/47021/1/PhysRevLett.67.2076.pdf
Ensembles of randomly distributed magnetic spins with
competing interactions exhibit many of the hallmarks of
glassy behavior.
...
Only at the lowest temperatures, well below the glass transition, does quantum
mechanics become important as different parts of the
free-energy surface can be linked through tunneling.
...

----------------------------------------------------

Structural Glass Transition and the Entropy of the Metastable States
Rémi Monasson
Phys. Rev. Lett. 75, 2847 – Published 9 October 1995

The metastable states of a glass are localized and counted by adding a 
weak pinning field that explicitly breaks the ergodicity. The entropy 
of the metastable states, that is, the logarithm of their number, 
is extensive in a range of temperatures T_s < T < T_c
 only. It is argued that T_s and T_c
 are the ideal calorimetric and kinetic transition temperatures, respectively. 
An explicit computation of the metastable states entropy for a (φ^2)^2 model is given.

----------------------------------------------------

"Spin-Glass Theory for Pedestrians"
   by Castellani and Cavagna
   2 May 2005
   https://arxiv.org/pdf/cond-mat/0505032.pdf

There is a thermodynamic transition at a temperature Ts,
where the free energy switches from a paramagnetic state, to many spin-glass states.
Moreover, Ts is also the temperature where the complexity of equilibrium states vanishes.

What happens at Ts is a perfect realization of the entropy crisis scenario described by
Kauzmann for supercooled liquids. Below Ts equilibrium is given by a non-exponential
number of lowest free energy states, which are detected and described by a standard
thermodynamic approach. Above Ts an exponentially large number of metastable states
dominates the partition function, due to their nonzero complexity. In this phase, we
have the funny result that the free energy density of equilibrium states is larger than
the global equilibrium free energy density. 

Thermodynamics is totally unaware of these
states, and predicts a trivial paramagnetic state, with P(q) = δ(q).

At higher temperatures we have a purely dynamic transition Td > Ts. When we
arrive at this temperature coming from above, the dynamics gets trapped by metastable
states, and the correlation time diverges. The equations describing such dynamical
behavior are the same as the MCT equations for supercooled liquids. This suggests
that what happens in the p-spin spherical model (PSM) at Td is similar to what happens in real glasses close
to the MCT temperature. The crucial difference, of course, is that in the PSM there
can be no barrier crossing, since barriers are infinite, while in real glasses activation is
present. 

On the other hand, the fact that standard MCT predicts a sharp dynamical
transition at Td seems to suggest that this theory too, as the PSM, does not account for
activated events.
...
A very final warning. We should never forget that the PSM is a mean-field model,
with no spatial structure at all. As a consequence, all physical modelizations and
interpretations coming from the PSM, inevitably have a mean-field flavor. In particular,
this is true for the topological interpretation of the dynamical transition: no fluctuations
are taken into account, not to mention spatial heterogeneities, which may play a very
important role. However, the arguments we gave in terms of phase space and topological
concepts have at least the virtue of being simple and effective. If not pushed too far,
they provide a nice tool to understand in a unifying way the physics of glassy systems.

