3D range measurements:
   - current best by accuracy, efficiency, data acquisition methods for cost 
     use time-of-flight (TOF) technology
     (from Review on Three Dimensional (3-D) Acquisition and Range Imaging Techniques. 
     by Aboali et al 2017.
     Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/318046846_Review_on_Three_Dimensional_3-D_Acquisition_and_Range_Imaging_Techniques).

using resources including electromagnetic  wave,  sound  wave,  ultrasonic,  
   laser, light ray, and more. 
variety of systems including laser, radar, sonar, ultrasonoscope, 
   imaging systems,  (etc.).  

Among these,  Laser Detection and Ranging (LADAR), a system  of 
   transmitting,  detecting, processing,  and  receiving  of  
   an  electromagnetic  wave  that reflects  from  targets.  
   The point measurements are from one viewpoint.
   the process is expensive and time-consuming.
The Laser range  finder (LRF), operates with the time of   
   flight principle,  by transmitting laser pulse onto the 
   surface object and receiving the reflected pulse to 
   measure the time between sending and receiving  pulse [14]. 
On 3D  Laser  Scanner,  the  concept  of operation  is  similar  to  LADAR.  
   However,  the  system  has been  generated  for  the  aim  
   of  3D  digital  measurement, visualization, and documentation, 
   it’s capable of  capturing 3D  digital  information  and  obtaining  
   images  with   high accuracy and speed [15]. 
Another typical system is the Light Detection   and   Ranging   (LIDAR), 
   a system   for   terrain mapping, forest and vegetation measurement.  
   LIDAR has the ability  of  detect  various  reflections  from  
   only  a  single  laser pulse [16]. 
Radio   Frequency   Identification   (RFID), an automatic tracking 
   and identification technology that utilized small tags  
   (transponders)  which  are  attached  to a physical object, 
   where the tags contain a store information. The system can 
   be used as automatic tracking for people, machine, cash, 
   airport baggage, train, shipping, cars, containers, automobile, 
   and  more [17].  
Radio  Detection  and  Ranging  (RADAR),  a unique technology of 
   detection that utilized radio wave to be transmitted  
   and  reflected back  by  objects  in  order  to  obtain angle, 
   velocity, range, and properties of targets. 
   It has various types and utilization involving detect ships, 
   guided missiles, aircraft, spacecraft, and  weather  formations [18].  
Thermal Imaging is another technology of sensing objects based on of 
   temperature scale difference, these technologies able to detect the  
   heat  given  by  the  desired targets.  A  wide  range  of applications 
   has utilized the concept of thermal imaging such as  mining  industry,  
   firefighting,  planes,  military,  medical applications.  
Global Positioning  System  (GPS),  space-based system  that  determined 
   the accurate  position  and  provides timely information of the 
   desired location anywhere on earth and   under  all-weather  conditions.  
   The  GPS  provides  to commercial users,  civil,  and  military  with  
   high  capabilities worldwide [19]. 
Ultrasound technologies based on the sound wave is other approach of 
   distances measurement and objects detection. They transmit 
   high-frequency sound pulse by using transducer probe, which 
   considers as main part of ultrasound technology machine. 
   Then, the reflected waves received back by same transducer probe [20]. 
(3D) cameras: these systems found their ways into a wide set of  global  
   applications  [21].  
Stereo  Vision,  Structure Light,  and  Time-of –Flight  are  the  most  
   common  principles [22].  
   stereo vision has been used in different ways in the making of movies since the mid 1800's.
Stereo vision correspondence between points can be complex.

Structured Light: The light emitting source (20) projects light pattern 
   which can be (multi stripe, stripe, single spot, binary, sine wave, 
   and any complex pattern) toward the desired 3D object.  
   Then, the light is distorted by the 3D object and detected by the 
   camera (18) at a high data acquisition rate.  
   Analysis of the distortions of structured light, but occlusion is a problem,
   and shadows

Photogrammetry  is  a method for precise three-dimensional (3D) measurements, 
   by taking Photographs from two or more locations known as (the lines  of  sight)  
   and  measuring  the  point  of  interest  for  each photograph.  
   The interaction of these lines of sight pairs can be triangulated then to 
   produce (3D) coordinate of the point of on target object.  
   A remote sensing and high-speed imaging are  may be  employed  by  Photogrammetry  
   for  the  aim  of detecting, recording, and measure three-dimensional  
   motion and complex 2D fields [57]. 
   types: Aerial Photogrammetry - camera parameters are well known. topological mapping...
          close range Photogrammetry - proximity distances are well known. 3D modeling...
dels, but perhaps it’s not utilized for  topographical  mapping.  However,  the  concept  of  this technique is applied to a diverse set of applications including Heritage,   city   modeling,   architecture,   medical imaging, security, anthropometric analysis, databases, face recognition, and more. [58]. Figure 3 illustrates the operating Photogrammetry principle.  

(16) (PDF) Review on Three Dimensional (3-D) Acquisition and Range Imaging Techniques. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/318046846_Review_on_Three_Dimensional_3-D_Acquisition_and_Range_Imaging_Techniques [accessed Mar 06 2020].


